---
layout: page
title: "System"
category: doc
date: 2015-09-13 11:10:09
---

## HAL

The architecture of our HAL is splitted into different layers to reach a more reliable system for exchanging those. This is needed to change to a different board for example. (The table below shows the three layers: changing to a new board architecture, only the "HAL Implementation" has to be exchanged)

| Layers             | Description |
| ------             | ----------- |
| Driver             | Drivers are accessed via System-Calls |
| HAL Interfaces     | HAL is accessed via functions, which are declared in this layer |
| HAL Implementation | Implemented methods of declareded functions |

### UART
Universal Asynchronous Receiver Transmitter is a serial port which allows the MC to communicate with other devices such as input sensors, LCDs or other computers. Sending the data is done bit by bit with a so called baud rate. This rate is the total amount of bits transmitted per second (bits/sec). The UART does not has any clock - thats why it is asynchronous. 

+ General rule of thumb for baud rates: 9600
+ RxD (Receive)
+ TxD (Transmit)
+ Gnd

**UART Packet**   
Start-Bit (Logic 0)   
Data Byte (~8 Bit)   
Parity Bit (Optional)   
Stop-Bit (Logic 1)   

For each word given by the UART transmission the Starterbit is added to the word and notifies the receiver that data will be sent soon. The transmitter can add a parity bit after sending all data for simple error handling at the receivers side. It must though have a stop bit, otherwise the word will be discarded. 

**DMA-Transmission/Reception**   
[17.4.2.4.2] DMA Transmission    
Data in the TX FIFO are automatically transmitted and the end of the transmission is signaled by the THR_REG empty (TX FIFO empty resp. UART_IER.THR_IT).

[17.3.2.4.3] DMA Reception    
At each received byte the RX FIFO trigger level (one char) is reached and DMA request is generated. The end is signaled by EOF interrupt.

**RS232**    
The RS232 communication sends either 1, called a *Mark* or 0, called *Space*. During idle state the communication continiously transmit 1. 

### Timer
The beagleboard (OMAP) offers 11 general-purpose timers (*GPT_*). We used a 1-ms Tick Generation with input clock of 32.768 Hz. To setup the timer we must set the negative and positive increment register which is calculated based on the TimerClock and tick count. The OMAP guide as example configuration uses 1-ms tick and the 32.768Hz clock with a positive value of 232000 and negative of -768000. The timer load value is set to 0xFFFF FFE0 which leads to an interrupt period of 65.5 μs.

As example we are using the GPT_TIMER_10 with GPT10_IRQ. This is mapped to M_IRQ_46 in the interrupt handler routines. Timer 10 and 11 are on the core module (Powerdomain *CORE*) which defaults to 32kHz clock. Timer 1 to 9 are on the Powerdomain *PER* [see p.2599]. Using overflow mode, the TLDR value or overflow rate is expressed as `OVF_Rate = (0xFFFF FFFF - GPTn.TLDR + 1) * (timer-functional clock period) * PS`. If no prescaler is used, PS=1. The timer functional clock period is `1/clock frequency`.

### Interrupts

The interrupt vectors must be defined in the [linker script](https://github.com/flomath/fluxos/blob/interrupts/beagleboard.cmd). They will need their own memory section. 

```
/** beagleboard.cmd **/
MEMORY
{
  SRAM:           o = 0x40200000  l = 0x0000FFC8  /* 64kB Internal SRAM */
 	DDR0:           o = 0x80000000  l = 0x40000000	/* 1GB external DDR Bank 0 */
  EXCEPTIONS:		o = 0x4020FFC8	l = 0x00000037	/* RAM exception vectors */
}

SECTIONS
{
  .intvecs    > EXCEPTIONS
...
```

The interrupt handlers are than defined in the [intvecs.asm](https://github.com/flomath/fluxos/blob/interrupts/intvecs.asm) file. Ensure that the memory addresses are the same as referenced in the manual, table 25-10.

The interrupt handlers can now be written in C. Use the `#pragma INTERRUPT(method_name, IRQ)` to ensure that the methods are correctly linked to the interrupts.

Because we will enter the Interrupt System Mode whenever an interrupt occurs we also need to define a [stack](https://github.com/flomath/fluxos/blob/interrupts/boot.asm) for this mode. If this is not done, we will receive Memory Abort Exceptions whenever we are trying to call a method in the ISR.

#### Activate an IRQ

To activate an interrupt for a device, you will have to enable a bit in the MPU_INTC_INTCPS_MIR register. See table 10-4 in the OMAP reference and use our method `void interrupt_add_listener(uint32_t irq, interrupt_callback* listener)`.
